=== task-1 baseline decision record ===
plan: jev-w1-intent-routing, todo 1 (Commit: N, no source change)
worktree: oh-my-openagent-jev-w1-e90b
branch: jev/w1-e90b
head: 82460563fa1573c49b88d7c70620fac09a971d19 (identical to jev/foundation)
toolchain: bun 1.4.0, node v22.23.2 (CI pins bun 1.3.12)


WHAT WAS TESTED
---------------
Worktree provenance, before anything else ran. Confirmed the checked-out branch is
jev/w1-e90b, that jev/foundation is an ancestor of it, that HEAD equals the planned
base commit, and that the working tree was clean before install. Recorded in
task-1-worktree-verify.txt.

Dependency install. Exact command: bun install. Captured in task-1-bun-install.txt.

Four gates, one artifact each, every one carrying its own final exit= line:

  1. bun install
     -> task-1-bun-install.txt
  2. bun test --timeout 20000                       (full suite, DEFAULT environment)
     -> task-1-full-test-baseline.txt
  3. bun run typecheck
     -> task-1-typecheck-baseline.txt
  4. bun run test:fast                              (the plan's mid-loop gate)
     -> task-1-test-fast.txt

Plus the baseline-relative notices gate, deliberately split across two files so that a
later byte-for-byte comparison of the heading list is not corrupted by an exit line:

  5. node scripts/check-third-party-notices.mjs
     -> task-1-notices-baseline.txt   (heading list ONLY, no exit line)
     -> task-1-notices-exit.txt       (exit code ONLY, exactly one line)

The full suite was then run a SECOND time with one environment variable removed, to
separate host-environment noise from real failures:

  6. env -u OPENCODE_SERVER_PASSWORD bun test --timeout 20000
     -> task-1-full-test-baseline-clean-env.txt

Two supporting diagnostic runs, both read-only and neither of them a gate:

  7. an isolation run of only the 9 files that failed in the default-env full suite,
     used to tell reproducible failures apart from order-dependent ones
     -> task-1-failure-classification.txt
  8. a single-file run of the auto-update-checker suite under the clean environment,
     used to test the cross-file-pollution hypothesis
     -> appended to task-1-failure-classification.txt under "## CLEAN-ENV RE-MEASURE"


WHAT WAS OBSERVED
-----------------
Gate results:

  bun install                                  exit 0    544 packages
  bun test --timeout 20000 (default env)       exit 1    12762 pass / 22 fail / 3 skip
  bun run typecheck                            exit 0    28 workspace tsconfigs clean
  bun run test:fast                            exit 0    317 pass / 0 fail, 31 files
  check-third-party-notices.mjs                exit 1    4 missing entries
  bun test (clean env)                         exit 1    12777 pass / 7 fail / 3 skip

Delta between the two full-suite runs: 22 failures down to 7, a reduction of 15.
Pass count rose by exactly the same 15, from 12762 to 12777. Skip count was unchanged
at 3 and the total tests run was unchanged at 12787 in both runs, which establishes
that nothing was skipped, filtered, or otherwise hidden to produce the lower number.
The only difference between the two runs was the environment variable.

The 22 default-env failures fall into three groups, each with a distinct root cause.

Group A, 2 failures, cause: Bun version drift. Files
packages/omo-opencode/src/shared/module-resolution-failure.test.ts and
packages/omo-opencode/src/cli/doctor/checks/dependencies.test.ts. Both assert that a
Bun ResolveMessage is NOT an instanceof Error. Under the locally installed Bun 1.4.0 it
IS an Error, so the assertion inverts. These reproduce in isolation and survive the
clean-env run. CI pins Bun 1.3.12, where the original assumption still holds, so this
pair is expected to be green on CI and red only on this machine.

Group B, 15 failures, cause: a host environment variable leaking into the code under
test. Six tmux-related files across packages/tmux-core, packages/team-core, and
packages/omo-opencode. The tmux command builders forward OPENCODE_SERVER_PASSWORD into
the spawned tmux invocation as an additional "-e NAME=value" argument pair. That extra
pair shifts the argv arrays the tests assert on, and the shifted call index produced the
secondary "TypeError: Reflect.get requires the first argument be an object". Unsetting
the variable cleared all 15. This is host contamination, not a defect in the branch.

Group C, 5 failures, cause: cross-file test pollution. All five are in
packages/omo-opencode/src/hooks/auto-update-checker/checker.test.ts. They pass when that
file runs alone, under both the default and the clean environment, and fail only inside
the full suite, so they are order-dependent rather than environment-dependent. The
polluting source was located by read-only inspection:
packages/omo-opencode/src/hooks/auto-update-checker/hook.test.ts line 30 registers
mock.module("./checker/latest-version", ...) with a stub returning the literal "3.0.1"
at line 20, and never restores it. checker.test.ts imports the real implementation from
that same module specifier, so once the mock is registered in the shared test process
every expectation in checker.test.ts receives "3.0.1" no matter what it stubs locally.
That matches the observed value on all five cases exactly. The value is not this
repository's version either, since package.json reads 4.19.4, which rules out a genuine
registry response. This is precisely the failure mode that
packages/omo-opencode/src/shared/mock-module-lifecycle-audit.test.ts exists to police.

The notices gate failed with exit 1, listing 4 missing entries: @opentui/core,
@opentui/keymap, @opentui/solid, and zod. This is the known pre-existing repository debt
called out in the root AGENTS.md and in the plan. It was not touched.

One incidental finding worth recording. The working tree was verifiably clean before
install, but bun install itself regenerated 5 tracked build outputs
(packages/omo-codex/plugin/components/codegraph/dist/cli.js and serve.js,
packages/omo-codex/scripts/install-dist/install-local.mjs, and
packages/omo-senpi/plugin/extensions/omo.js and omo-member.js). These are the same 5
files the plan describes as pre-existing modifications to leave alone. They are install
lifecycle output, not anyone's hand edits, so a fresh worktree does not avoid them. They
were left exactly as install produced them. No git stash, git checkout --, or git reset
was run anywhere.

No commit was made. No source file, package.json, or configuration file was modified by
this todo.


WHY IT IS ENOUGH
----------------
The purpose of this todo is to give later todos a baseline precise enough that any new
failure they introduce is unambiguous. The clean-environment run is that baseline, and
it is recorded in task-1-frozen-baseline.txt.

It is a valid regression detector for four reasons.

First, it is minimal rather than merely accurate. A 22-failure baseline would force a
later verifier to reason about 22 entries, 15 of which vary with whatever happens to be
exported in the shell at the time. Those 15 are precisely the entries most likely to
flip state between runs for reasons unrelated to any code change, which is what makes a
noisy baseline a weak detector. Removing them by controlling the environment, rather
than by editing tests, leaves 7 entries that are stable properties of this toolchain and
this commit.

Second, the reduction is proven rather than asserted. The two runs differ in exactly one
variable. Total tests run is identical at 12787 in both, skip is identical at 3, and the
15 lost failures reappear as exactly 15 gained passes. Nothing was excluded to make the
number smaller.

Third, every one of the 7 survivors has an identified root cause and a demonstrated
independence from this plan's scope. None of them is in the jev intent-routing surface
this plan modifies. None was introduced by this branch, whose HEAD is byte-identical to
jev/foundation with no code change in this todo. Two are a local-toolchain artifact that
CI's pinned Bun will not reproduce, and five are a pre-existing unrestored module mock in
a neighbouring file. A later verifier that sees any of these 7 can therefore dismiss them
by name, and anything outside the 7 is a genuine regression.

Fourth, the artifact is built for mechanical comparison. The failure list is emitted as
one line per failure in the fixed form <relative-file-path><TAB><full test name>, sorted
under LC_ALL=C so the ordering is deterministic and locale-independent. The file carries
no timestamps, no durations, and no absolute paths, which was verified by scanning it for
each of those three token classes and confirming zero matches. The extraction was run
twice over the same captured output and produced byte-identical results. A later gate can
therefore diff its own re-measure against this file and treat any difference as signal.

The supporting gates reinforce the conclusion. typecheck is fully green, so there is no
type-level debt to disentangle from later work. test:fast, the plan's own mid-loop gate,
is green at 317 pass and 0 fail, so the fast feedback loop later todos will rely on
starts from a clean state and any red in it is attributable.


WHAT WAS OMITTED
----------------
No secret, credential, token, password, or authentication header value is recorded in
any artifact produced by this todo. The variable OPENCODE_SERVER_PASSWORD is referred to
by NAME ONLY throughout. Its value was never written to any evidence file, never echoed,
and never captured. Where the default-env test output happened to contain the value in a
tmux argument, that output lives only in task-1-full-test-baseline.txt as raw captured
test output and is not reproduced, quoted, or summarised anywhere else; the clean-env
run, which is the artifact later gates actually compare against, cannot contain it
because the variable was unset for that run. No environment dump was taken. The
environment snapshot in task-1-failure-classification.txt records only whether selected
variables are set, as a literal yes or no, never their contents.

Not covered by this todo, and deliberately so:

The 7 frozen failures were NOT fixed. This todo measures; repair is out of scope and was
explicitly forbidden. In particular the unrestored mock.module in
auto-update-checker/hook.test.ts was diagnosed but left in place.

The notices debt was NOT fixed, per the plan, which requires asserting no NEW missing
entry rather than requiring green.

The baseline was NOT measured on CI's pinned Bun 1.3.12. Only the locally installed Bun
1.4.0 was used. The 2 group A failures are predicted to be absent on 1.3.12, but that
prediction is reasoned from the assertion text and was not empirically confirmed here.
A later gate comparing against this baseline must run on the same Bun as the baseline,
or expect those 2 entries to disappear.

The clean-env baseline removes only OPENCODE_SERVER_PASSWORD. No other host variable was
audited for similar leakage, so an unrelated variable could in principle affect a future
run. TMUX, CMUX_SOCKET_PATH, and CI were each confirmed unset at measurement time and
are recorded as such.

No build, no lint, no formatter, and no runtime or live-session QA was run. This todo
makes no product change, so there is no behavior to exercise; the plan places live
opencode-qa verification in a later, dedicated todo.

The 5 install-regenerated build outputs were left modified in the working tree. Their
content was not reviewed for correctness, only noted as install output.
